$Date: 2003-02-12 20:41:52 $

New in 1.38: fixed custom range selection for 3D iso graphs; New build
system based on autoconf; New image reading code to import bitmaps as
post-processing views;

New in 1.37: Generalized smoothing and cuts of post-processing views;
better Windows integration (solvers, external editors, etc.); small
bug fixes;

New in 1.36: Enhanced view duplication (one can now use "Duplicata
View[num]" in the input file); Merged all option dialogs in a new
general option window; enhanced discoverability of the view option
menus; new 3D point and line display; many small bug fixes and
enhancements ("Print" format in parser, post-processing statistics,
smooth normals, save window positions, restore default options, etc.);

New in 1.35: Graphical user interface upgraded to FLTK 1.1 (tooltips,
new file chooser with multiple selection, full keyboard navigation,
cut/paste of messages, etc.); colors can be now be directly assigned
to mesh entities; initial tensor visaulization; new keyboard animation
(righ/left arrow for time steps; up/down arrow for view cycling); new
VRML output format for surface meshes; new plugin for spherical
elevation plots; new post-processing file format (version 1.2)
supporting quadrangles, hexahedra, prisms and pyramids; transparency
is now enabled by default for post-processing plots; many small bug
fixes (read mesh, ...);

New in 1.34: Improved surface mesh of non-plane surfaces; fixed
orientation of elements in 2D anisotropic algorithm; minor user
interface polish and additions (mostly in post-processing options);
various small bug fixes;

New in 1.33: New parameterizable solver interface (allowing up to 5
user-defined solvers); enhanced 2D aniso algorithm; 3D initial mesh
speedup;

New in 1.32: New visibility browser; better floating point exception
checks; fixed infinite looping when merging meshes in project files;
various small clean ups (degenerate 2D extrusion, view->reload, ...);

New in 1.31: Corrected ellipses; PostScript output update (better
shading, new combined PS/LaTeX output format); more interface polish;
fixed extra memory allocation in 2D meshes; Physical Volume handling
in unv format; various small fixes;

New in 1.30: Interface polish; fix crash when extruding quadrangles;

New in 1.29: Translations and rotations can now be combined in
extrusions; fixed coherence bug in Extrude Line; various small
bug fixes and additions;

New in 1.28: Corrected the 'Using Progression' attribute for
tranfinite meshes to actually match a real geometric progression; new
Triangulate plugin; new 2D graphs (space+time charts); better
performance of geometrical transformations (warning: the numbering of
some automatically created entities has changed); new text primitives
in post-processing views (file format updated to version 1.1); more
robust mean plane computation and error checks; various other small
additions and clean-ups;

New in 1.27: Added ability to extrude curves with Layers/Recombine
attributes; New PointSize/LineWidth options; Fixed For/EndFor loops in
included files; fixed error messages (line numbers+file names) in
loops and functions; Made the automatic removal of duplicate
geometrical entities optional (Geometry.AutoCoherence=0); various
other small bug fixes and clean-ups;

New in 1.26: Enhanced 2D anisotropic mesh generator (metric
intersections); fixed small bug in 3D initial mesh; added alternative
syntax for built-in functions (for GetDP compatibility); added line
element display; Gmsh now saves all the elements in the mesh if no
physical groups are defined (or if Mesh.SaveAll=1);

New in 1.25: Fixed bug with mixed recombined/non-recombined extruded
meshes; Linux versions are now build with no optimization, due to bugs
in gcc 2.95.X;

New in 1.24: Fixed characteristic length interpolation for Splines;
fixed edge swapping bug in 3D initial mesh; fixed degenerated case in
geometrical extrusion (ruled surface with 3 borders); fixed generation
of degenerated hexahedra and prisms for recombined+extruded meshes;
added BSplines creation in the GUI; integrated Jonathan Shewchuk's
Triangle as an alternative isotropic 2D mesh generator; added
AngleSmoothNormals to control sharp edge display with smoothed
normals; fixed random crash for lighted 3D iso surfaces;

New in 1.23: Fixed duplicate elements generation + non-matching
tetrahedra faces in 3D extruded meshes; Better display of displacement
maps; fixed interactive ellipsis construction; generalized boundary
operator; added new explode option for post-processing views; enhanced
link view behaviour (to update only the changed items); added new
default plugins: Skin, Transform, Smooth; fixed various other small
bugs (mostly in the post-processing module and for extruded meshes);

New in 1.22: Fixed (yet another) bug for 2D mesh in the mean plane;
fixed surface coherence bug in extruded meshes; new double logarithmic
scale, saturate value and smoothed normals option for post-processing
views; plugins are now enabled by default; three new experimental
statically linked plugins: CutMap (extracts a given iso surface from a
3D scalar map), CutPlane (cuts a 3D scalar map with a plane section),
CutSphere (cuts a 3D scalar map with a sphere); various other bug
fixes, additions and clean-ups;

New in 1.21: Fixed more memory leaks; added -opt command line option
to parse definitions directly from the command line; fixed missing
screen refreshes during contour/surface/volume selection; Enhanced
string manipulation functions (Sprintf, StrCat, StrPrefix); Many other
small fixes and clean-ups;

New in 1.20: Fixed various bugs (memory leaks, functions in included
files, solver command selection, ColorTable option, duplicate nodes in
extruded meshes (not finished yet), infinite loop on empty views,
orientation of recombined quadrangles...); reorganized the interface
menus; added constrained background mesh and mesh visibility options;
added mesh quality histograms; changed default mesh colors;
reintegrated the old command-line extrusion mesh generator;

New in 1.19: Fixed seg. fault for scalar simplex post-processing; new
Solver menu; interface for GetDP solver through sockets; fixed
multiple scale alignment; added some options + full option
descriptions;

New in 1.18: Fixed many small bugs and incoherences in
post-processing; fixed broken background mesh in 1D mesh generation.

New in 1.17: Corrected physical points saving; fixed parsing of DOS
files (carriage return problems); easier geometrical selections
(cursor change); plugin manager; enhanced variable arrays (sublist
selection and affectation); line loop check; New arrow display;
reduced number of 'fatal' errors + better handling in interactive
mode; fixed bug when opening meshes; enhanced File->Open behaviour for
meshes and post-processing views;

New in 1.16: Added single/double buffer selection (only useful for
Unix versions of Gmsh run from remote hosts without GLX); fixed a bug
for recent versions of the opengl32.dll on Windows, which caused OpenGL
fonts not to show up;

New in 1.15: Added automatic visibility setting during entity
selection; Corrected geometrical extrusion bug;

New in 1.14: Corrected a few bugs in the GUI (most of them were
introduced in 1.13); Added interactive color selection; Made the
option database bidirectional (i.e. scripts now correctly update the
GUI); Default options can now be saved and automatically reloaded at
startup; Made some changes to the scripting syntax
(PostProcessing.View[n] becomes View[n]; Offset0 becomes OffsetX,
etc.); Corrected the handling of simple triangular surfaces with large
characteristic lengths in the 2D isotropic algorithm; Added an ascii
to binary post-processing view converter;

New in 1.13: Added jpeg output on Windows;

New in 1.12: Corrected vector lines in the post-processing parsed
format; corrected animation on Windows; corrected file creation in
scripts on Windows; direct affectation of variable arrays;

New in 1.11: Corrected included file loading problem.

New in 1.10: Switched from Motif to FLTK for the GUI. Many small
tweaks.

New in 1.00: Added PPM and YUV output; Corrected nested If/Endif;
Corrected several bugs for pixel output and enhanced GIF output
(dithering, transparency); Slightly changed the post-processing file
format to allow both single and double precision numbers.

New in 0.999: Added JPEG output and easy MPEG generation (see t8.geo in the
tutorial); Clean up of export functions; small fixes; Linux versions
are now compiled with gcc 2.95.2, which should fix the problems
encountered with Mandrake 7.2;

New in 0.998: Corrected bug introduced in 0.997 in the generation of
the initial 3D mesh;

New in 0.997: Corrected bug in interactive surface/volume selection;
Added interactive symmetry; Corrected geometrical extrusion with
rotation in degenerated or partially degenerated cases; Corrected bug
in 2D mesh when meshing in the mean plane; 

New in 0.996: Arrays of variables; Enhanced Printf and Sprintf;
Simplified options (suppression of option arrays).

New in 0.995: Totally rewritten geometrical database (performance has
been drastically improved for all geometrical transformations, and
most notably for extrusion). As a consequence, the internal numbering
of geometrical entities has changed: this will cause incompatibilities
with old .geo files, and will require a partial rewrite of your old
.geo files if these files made use of geometrical transformations. The
syntax of the .geo file has also been clarified. Many additions for
scripting purposes. New extrusion mesh generator. Preliminary version
of the coupling between extruded and Delaunay meshes. New option and
procedural database. All interactive operations can be scripted in the
input files. See the last example in the tutorial for an example. Many
stability enhancements in the 2D and 3D mesh algorithms. Performance
boost of the 3D algorithm. Gmsh is still slow, but the performance
becomes acceptable. An average 1000 tetrahedra/second is obtained on a
600Mhz computer for a mesh of one million tetrahedra. New anisotropic
2D mesh algorithm. New (ascii and binary) post-processing file format
and clarified mesh file format. New handling for interactive rotations
(trackball mode). New didactic interactive mesh construction (watch
the Delaunay algorithm in real time on complex geometries: that's
exciting ;-). And many, many bug fixes and cleanings...

New in 0.992: corrected recombined extrusion; corrected ellipses; added
simple automatic animation of post-processing maps; fixed various bugs.

New in 0.991: fixed a serious allocation bug in 2D algorithm, which
caused random crashes. All users should upgrade to 0.991.

New in 0.990: bug fix in non-recombined 3D transfinite meshes.

New in 0.989: added ability to reload previously saved meshes; some
new command line options; reorganization of the scale menu; GIF
output.

New in 0.987: fixed bug with smoothing (leading to the possible
generation of erroneous 3d meshes); corrected bug for mixed 3D meshes;
moved the 'toggle view link' option to Opt->Postprocessing_Options.

New in 0.986: fixed overlay problems; SGI version should now also run
on 32 bits machines; fixed small 3d mesh bug.

New in 0.985: corrected colormap bug on HP, SUN, SGI and IBM versions;
corrected small initialization bug in postscript output.

New in 0.984: corrected bug in display lists; added some options in
Opt->General.

New in 0.983: corrected some seg faults in interactive mode; corrected
bug in rotations; changed default window sizes for better match with
1024x768 screens (default X resources can be changed: see ex03.geo).

New in 0.982: lighting for mesh and post-processing; corrected 2nd
order mesh on non plane surfaces; added example 13.

